VPC
--

Virtual Private Cloud is a private network within an AWS region where we can deploy our resources.
Inside our VPC, we create multiple subnets and subnets are at the availability zone level. It allows us to partition our network. We 
can have multiple subnets at the AZ level.

We can create public subnets which is accessible from the internet and private subnet which is private and secured and not accessible
from the internet. To define access to the internet and between subnets,  we use Route Tables.

So at a higher level, we have AWS region, within a region we have a VPC and a VPC contains a range of IPs called CIDR range. If this
region has 2 availability zones then AWS provides us with a public subnet per availability zone by default. So we dont have private 
subnets by default and each AWS region contains a default VPC.

Now when we have EC2 instance deployed in our public subnet, it is accessible to the internet via Internet Gateway. So our public subnet
has a direct route to IGW to talk to the internet. But what if our instance deployed in private subnet wants to talk to the internet 
lets say for software updates or consuming a 3rd party api. For this we make use of NAT Gateways or NAT Instances. NAT Gateways are 
AWS managed and NAT Instances are self managed and both allow us to communicate to the internet, but the internet still cannot reach 
our EC2 instance inside private subnet.
To enable our private subnet talk to the internet, we deploy NAT Gateway or NAT Instance into our public subnet which has access to 
Internet Gateway. So after deploying, our private subnet communicates with NAT and NAT communicates with IGW all the way to the world 
wide web (www).

For defense mechanisms, we have NACL (Network ACL) and Security Groups.
NACL is a firewall which control traffic to and from the subnet. It has ALLOW and DENY rules which are only ip based. So we can 
define the ranges which IPs are allowed and which are denied into our public subnet. NACL are only attached at the subnet level which
is the first level of defense.
The second level of defense is the security group which is at the resourse level (EC2 instance) and it has only ALLOW rules where 
we can define IP addresses and other security groups as well.

We can monitor all the traffic going in and our of our VPC, Subnets and Instances by the use of VPC Flow logs, Subnet Flow Logs and 
Elastic Network Interface (ENI) Flow logs. It helps monitor and trouble shoot connectvity issues like Subnet to Internet connection,
Subnet to Subnet connection, Internet to subnet connection, etc... We can also send these flow logs to S3, CloudWatch or Kinesis Data
Firehose.

If we have multiple VPCs either in 2 different AWS regions or 2 different AWS accounts and we need to connect those VPCs as if they
are in the same network, then we need to peer them using VPC Peering. ANy 2 VPC need to connect to each other must have a separate 
peering connection. Also we need to make sure that the CIDR Ip ranges must not overlap between the 2 VPCs

With VPC Endpoints, we can connect to any AWS service privately instead of public www network. This gives us enhanced security and 
low latency to access AWS service. So if we have a private VPC and an EC2 instance deployed on it and that instance need to connect to 
S3 or DynamoDB, then we can create VPC Endpoint to connect to those services