Database Engines
--

Sometimes called storage engines, embedded engines
DB Engines are nothing but a library that takes care of storage on disk and CRUD operations

Some DBMS allows you to change the underlying engine like MySQL but some DBMS stuck with the default engine you cannot change
like Postgres. Uber switched from Postgres to Mysql and this was one of the reason for it.
Link: https://www.uber.com/en-PK/blog/postgres-to-mysql-migration/



MyISAM
  .Open Source & Owned by Oracle
  .Stands for Indexed Sequential Access Method
  .Everything is indexed and the index points directly to the row (B Tree)
  .Transaction is not supported
  .Inserts are very fast because inserts always happen at the end of file (WAL) and we know where the file ends. Updates and Deletes
   are slow and problamatic because these operations change the file offsets. If something is updated or deleted in the middle 
   then the row offset changes and all the indexes also changes that points to the old offset row location
  .Suppports table level locking and no row level locking. If you want to update something, you have to acquire lock on whole
   table
  .MySQL, MariaDB supports MyISAM
  .It used to be the default engine for MySQL but not now.
  
  
InnoDB
  .Owned by Oracle
  .Default engine for MariaDB and MySQL
  .It is a transactional database storage engine
  .Supports B+ Trees and only the PK index points to the actual row location. Every other index points to the PK
  .Supports ACID, Foreign keys, Row level locking
  
  
XtraDB
  .Owned by a single person that doesn't like Oracle. So he created his own engined which is a fork of InnoDB and contains all the
   feature from it.
  .MariaDB default was XtraDB engine for a long time until 10.1 version. From 10.2 MariaDB switched back to default InnoDB
  .XtraDB couldn't kept upto date with the latest features of InnoDB and cannot be used. Because oracle is a big company and 
   XtraDB owner is just a single person. Link to artice: https://mariadb.com/kb/en/why-does-mariadb-102-use-innodb-instead-of-xtradb/
  .MariaDB System Tables uses Aria. Link: https://mariadb.com/kb/en/aria-storage-engine/
  


SQLite
  .Popular embedded database for local data
  .Its everywhere, in the browsers (WebSQL under Application tab in console), softwares, operating systems by default
  .Uses B Tree by default
  .Postgres like syntax
  .Supports full ACID and table locking. Does not support row locking because it is not needed. There are no multiple users
   in local
   
   
   
BerkeleyDB
  .Owned by Oracle
  
LevelDB
  .Owned by Google
  
RocksDB
  .Owned by Facebook
  .A complete fork of LevelDB with many more features
  .MyRocks for MySql and MariaDB
  .MongoRocks for MongoDB
  
  
DBMS/Engines that uses B Trees
  .MySQL
  .Postgres
  .MongoDB
  .Couchbase or CouchDB
  .Sq Server
  .IBM DB2
  
DBMS/Engines that uses LSM Trees (Very fast reads and writes)
  .Cassandra
  .Elasticsearch
  .Google BigTable
  .Apache HBase
  .LevelDB
  .RocksDB
  
  
  
We can use show engines; command in mysql container to list down all the engines mysql supports. It will maybe not show LevelDB
or RocksDB but we can install RocksDB in our machine and then we can use it

We can create a table in mysql with different storage engines like one with InnoDB and one with MyISAM. We will have to specify
the engine on query. By default it is InnoDB but if we have to change it we can change it like,
"Create Table employees_myisam (id int primary key auto_increment, name text) engine = myisam;"
"Create Table employees_innodb (id int primary key auto_increment, name text) engine = innodb;"

Now since myisam does not support transactions, foreign keys and stuff, when we run a query inserting a new row or updating acquire
new row and within our transaction if some external client tries to select * from myisam table, they will see the changes because
myisam does not support transaction.