Cryptocurreny Intuition
--

1) Bitcoin
2) Bitcoin Policy
3) Mining Pools
4) Nonce Range
5) Miners Picking Transactions
6) Hardware for Crypto Mining
7) Mempools
8) Orphaned Blocks
9) 51% Attack


Bitcoin

In crypto world, there are 3 important layers

1) Technology, where blockchain resides
2) Protocol / Coin, where bitcoin resides
3) Token, rely on smart contracts built on different protocols

We need to understand the concept that bitcoin is not just a coin or a currency. It is a protocol which contains a set of rules that guides how
participants over network communicate with each other like TCP, UDP, HTTP, IP
Similarly bitcoin contains set of rules how participants in a bitcoin network will communicate with each other, make an agreement and have a 
consensus. This protocol guides how public priate keys should be used for authentication

Other procools include
  *Ethereum *Waves *New *Ripple
All rely on the same technology which is blockchain

All these protocols contain an important feature which is Coin and every protocol has a coin attached to it which is named after the protocol. The
coin is a protocol asset which facilitates the interaction of players which is used to reward people through mining, purchasing things from each
other

For tokens
  *Ethereum is the most popular protocol for creating smart contracts and tokens and there are hundreds and thousands of tokens
  *Bitcoin has no token as it does not facilitates us for creating smart contracts. Nobody creates tokens on bitcoin
  *Ripple also has no tokens
  *Neo has quiet a lot of token and is said to be the challenger of Ethereum
  *Waves also has a few tokens
  
  
What is bitcoin all about?
Bitcoin is taking the blockchain technology from theory and making it into practice where people are connected and transact with each other using
this technology. All people trust each other because they trust the technology and there are no intermediate layers between them like bank

The layer 2 is about helping people transact without any layer

The bitcoin echosystem consists of following things
  *Nodes, which are devices used by people in the network
  *Miners who helps the blockchain grow by mining
  *Large Miners, who have lots of lots of devices and equipments to make large contribution in growing the blockchain
  *Mining Pool where miners get together and work on mining process
  
  
  
  
  
Bitcoin Monetary Policy

Just like a government bank has a policy, bitcoin also has a policy
It consists of 2 main parts
  
1) Halving

This principal states that, number of bitcoins released in the system is halved every single 4 years per block
This policy is entirely controlled by its software

The bitcoin reward is getting low every 4 years so what is the point of mining then for the miners?
More and more people are joining the network and trasnactions are increasing every now and then. Hence the transaction fees is getting increased
exponentially so besides bitcoin mining reward, the miners also gets the transaction fees payed by the user

For this reason, bitcoin is said to be deflation type of currency

2) Block Frequency

It is referred to how often blocks are coming in that is breaking the reward
The average time per block is coming in
  *Bitcoin -> 10 mins
  *Litecoin -> 2.5 min
  *Ethereum -> 15 sec
  *Ripple -> 3.5 sec

It is dependent upon the design of the system





Mining Pool

Beside regular miners, there are also large and huge industrial size mines with lots of employees that come joins the network which contain lots of 
computation power.
Now what about regular miners which has a very small computation power? Their mining effort will be in vain. This is not the case as with these
industrial size mines, another thing was invented which is called mining pools.

Mining pool provides a service in which it combines several miners, combine their hashing powers to solve the cryptographic puzzle
The way it combines is that lets say node 1 to node 4 are part of mining pool. So node 1 is given the responsibility to check for the nonce from
0 to 1 billion, node 2 to check from 1 billion to 2 billion and so on. And as soon as one of the node find the golden nonce, that mining pool wins.
The reward is distributed among the miners according to the contribution they have made and according to the hashing power they preserve.

Mining pool is basically a website or an organization which you can download into your device
Anybody can join the mining pool and since there are multiple mining pools in a network, we can also switch between them





Nonce Range

We know that nonce is a filed inside a block which can vary and helps solving cryptographic puzzle
Some additional info about nonce is that the nonce is not infinite

It is a 32 bit number
It is an integer which can range from 0 to approximately 4 Billion

Some estimation on this range

Total 64 hexadecimal character could be: 16^64 approximately =  10^77
Total valid hexadecimal character could be: 16^(64 - 18) approximately =  2x10^55

Probablity that a valid hash is picked = 2x10^55 / 10^77 = 2x10^-22 = 0.000000000000000000000002%

Nonce is a 32 bit number so total possible hashes = 2^32 = 4,294,967,296 approximately 4x10^9 (4 Billion)
If we assume there are no collision we get 4 Billion unique hashes

Probablity that one of the hash will be valid = 4x10^9 x 2x10^-22 = 8x10^-13 approximately 10^-12 = 0.0000000000001%

The probablity is very much small that one nonce range is not enough to find the golden nonce
Then how will the cryptographic puzzle be solved?

A modest miner does 100 million hashes per second so if there are 4 billion hashes. It would take around 40 seconds to calculate all the hashes
for all the nonce and if the golden nonce is not found then what? Miner has nothing to do

But that is not the case. There is another field in the block which is the "timestamp" which is automatically updating every second during the
mining process. So by the combination of nonce and timestamp, we get infinite amount of hash to be calculated because the timestamp gets updated
every second. If a miner calculates certain number of hash lets say from (0 to 100 million) in 1 second, then the timestamp will get updated and
now those 100 million hash can be re-calculated because those now can be different.
So in this way miner keeps on calculating with the updation of timestamp till it finds the golden nonce

But this however is not the solution for the mining pool. The mining pool as we know combines the computation power and it can go upto 4 billion
hashes in a tiny little part of a second. So the pool then needs to wait until the timestamp gets updated and then re-calculate those 4 billion
hashes. But this is not the case. The solution is discussed in the next section.







How Miners Pick Transaction?

In reality, where do the transactions comes from which is the actual data of the block?
The transactions comes from the Mempool which is attached to every miner. These are all the unconfirmed transactions which gets stored here 
before it gets mined and turns into a block in a blockchain

Blocks are added every 10 minutes (For Bitcoin) but transaction happened all the time

The mempool contains the transaction id with the transaction fees which the miner will get if he adds it into his block
A normal blockchain allows 1Mb of data to be added into the block but we can assume that a miner is allowed to add 5 transactions from the mempools

The transaction fees associated with the transaction is applied by the user. It can be 0BTC or anything 
The miners will however will try to pick transactions which has the highest fees because they will be getting paid

Lets say they have picked 5 transactions with the highest fees from the mempool. For a single miner, it is alright to now check for the nonce
until the timestamp gets updated
But what is the solution for the mining pool? The pool can check all 4 billion nonce in less than a second (0.3 second) and they will sit idle
for the rest of 0.7 second until the timestamp gets updated. The soluton is simple and that is to Change The Block Configuration. The pool will
remove one transaction from the block with the lowest fees and will fetch one transaction with the next highest fees from the mempool and add it
to the block and now re-calculate the hash because the data is changed.

This technique is built into the algorithm and miners or the pool dont have to do this manually. If a miner become part of the pool, the pool
itself will assign the transaction and it is not miner's headache to what is going on. They just provide computation power







How Mempool Works?

The mempool is attached to each participant whether it is a miner or user as a distributed peer to peer network
Mempool is not a blockchain itself, it is just the staging area for transaction where all the transactions go before adding it into the block via
mining

Lets say User has to do the transaction. It will add that transaction into his mempool and broadcast it to the network. All the closest nodes
will listen to this message, perform some checks (validate the transaction by checking signatures, etc) and then those nodes broadcast further
down the network to their closest node and throughout the network it is spread

In this way mempool is filled up and aroung 5 to 10 thousands records are there inside a mempool

Now we know how miners pick transaction, they pick the transaction, mines the block, adds the block to their blockchain and spread down the
information. As soon as the validation check passes for the block, all the participants remove those mined transactions from their respective mempools









CPUs vs GPUs vs ASICs

Hardware that miners use to solve the cryptographic puzzle

CPU
  .General in its nature
  .Can do about 10 million hashes per second

GPU
  .Specialized in its nature
  .Does not have many tasks that a CPU has
  .Designed to solve complex problems like matrix calculations for the graphics and videos to appear
  .Can do about 1 billion hashes per second
  
ASIC
  .Totally Specialized in its nature
  .Designed just for the purpose of mining bitcoin or any other cryptocurrency
  .Can do more than 1 trillion hashes per second







51% Attack

A 51% attack happens when a malicious user in a network acquires control of a given blockchain’s mining capabilities. It implies that the attackers 
will have more than 50% mining power and can mine faster than everyone else. This group uses that power to create invalid transactions or deny 
legitimate ones

This attack is not designed to attack an individual selected block
Just like an example that to hack the blockchain, the hacker just not need to attach single node blockchain but it will need to at-least hack
more than 50% of the nodes in the blockchain including simple users and miners

What 51% really is that suppose there is small network or 8 miners and is happily going with few blocks in a block chain. A group of miners (more than
8 miners) from outside requested to join the network to mine the block and increase the blockchain. So those malicious miners will get the same
copy of the blockchain and mempool to mine the block from now on. What those miners will do is that whenever they mine any block, they dont broadcast
it to the other 8 loyal miners. The malicious miners keep secretly building their own chain and since these miners are more than 8, their rate of
increasing blocks will be higher than those of 8 miners. After some time when the malicious chain become large enough than the loyal chain, at some
point those malicious miners will broadcast the chain to the miners and that is from where the problem begans. We know that golden rule of
competing chain is that the longest chain wins, so the malicious chain will discard the loyal chain since it is larger than that. All those mined
blocks which was done by the 8 loyal miners will be discarded and sent back to the mempool and malicious block will replace them in the blockchain

Now here the attack is not ended. The blocks which was cancelled and sent back to the mempool can be mined again and added to the blockchain. Here
the malicious miners will try to stop these transactions getting added to the blockchain again. Since the miners are more than 8, they have the more
hashing power, they will prevent picking these transactions and instead can mine empty blocks. After sometime these blocks will be discarded from
the mempool because it is a rool of thumb that any transaction stuck in the mempool for 72 hours will be discarded and returned back to the user.

Example 
I spend 10 Bitcoin on a luxurious car. The car gets delivered a few days later, and my Bitcoins are transferred from me to the car company. 
By performing a 51% attack on the Bitcoin blockchain, I can now try to reverse this Bitcoin transfer. If I succeed, I will possess both the 
luxurious car and my Bitcoins, allowing me to spend those Bitcoins again.
